[MUSIC]
>> Mike North: Last piece of course I'm
going to show you how to create and
Ember add-on and
how to consume it in an app.
We're gonna keep it really basic here.
I just want you guys to
understand how to create it,
how to have things remain internal to the
add-on versus exposing them to the app,
and also some little testing in new
answers that you should be aware of.
So the way you start out
a new Ember add-on is,
ember addon, and we'll call it fem for
front end masters.
So similarly, just like Ember new,
we've got a blueprint here.
We're creating a bunch of stuff,
bunch of test working right
off the bat.
>> Mike North: So what we're gonna see is,
and you can already see a little bit,
there's an app and an addon folder.
An important distinction to make
between those is that the addon folder,
those modules will be name spaced to
whatever your addon name space is.
Everything in the app folder will
be merged into your consuming app.
And so, here's why that's important.
Components and
helpers register themselves and
make themselves available if
they're in the correct name space.
So it's important to make sure
not only is your addon folder
containing the component as a whole, but
you also sort of pass it through to the
app folder and we'll see how that works.
Just to make sure it's made available
to everything that's consuming it.
So you're gonna see in
addition to those two trees of
files which we'll both have our respective
components folder, our templates folder.
It's sort of the same
structure as our app folder.
There's a third one and
that is used for testing.
So there's sort of a dummy app that's used
both for acceptance testing your Ember
add-on, as well as people often
use this as sort of the demo page.
They'll push it off to GitHub pages, and
it'll be part of the documentation
that proves it's actually working.
So, we'll go to fem, and
if we open this up and
bring it into our workspace.
>> Mike North: Fantastic,
so app folder, which is empty right now,
addon folder, which is empty right now.
But these, once we start
creating a couple of things, and
you'll see that Ember CLI is
still doing a lot of work for us.
Things will sort of start
to mirror each other.
Additionally, in the tests
folder you've got this dummy
folder here and that looks like an app.
This is what you'll startup
when you hit Ember S.
You'll serve up your dummy app which
will already have consumed your add-on.
It's a way to test to make sure
that everything works as expected,
as part of the development process.
So you can TDD in your add-on and it sort
of has a simple app for you to work with.
So, kill this URL.
We're not serving it, we'll start it up.
>> Mike North: All right, it's serving,
so I have some breakpoints left over.
Welcome to Ember, and I'm gonna prove
that this is the dummy app being served.
I'll change this.
>> Mike North: And it will refresh.
So dummy app but if we look at
the modules that are available,
you'll see that,
well we should create something first but
you'll see that all of the add-on
code becomes available.
So let's build a component.
Ember g component and we'll call it,
because naming things is hard.
So this is doing more work.
This is doing more work than
creating a component in an app.
You can see that we've created
an add-on component and
an app component file.
So if we go back here and
we look at social-info,
there's the component as we expect and
here's its template.
But also we have this
sort of pass through.
So this is in the app tree.
Effectively, what this is doing,
it's importing the ESX module from our
namespace and bringing it into the app
namespace by just exporting again.
This is where you could
potentially extend things or
typically you wanna keep this very small.
But a use case for messing with this
might be if you rename social info and
you wanna actually export it twice
as social info or social stuff.
And maybe you wanna deprecate one of them.
This would be the place to do that, right.
So you just have your core component but
through one path you can deprecate or
you can throw a warning or something and
then make it available through the other.
But typically,
you're just gonna wanna leave this alone.
So we'll just add something cuz we've
already gone through components
here.
>> Mike North: I'll just make it boring.
[LAUGH] And
bring it into our application.hps.
>> Mike North: Could not find module.
Templates social-info.
>> Mike North: Interesting.
>> Mike North: I'm not sure what's going
on there.
>> Mike North: Components.
>> Mike North: I'm gonna try bumping up
the Ember version here just for kicks.
>> Mike North: I get it, okay.
[LAUGH] So, one thing to be aware of
is that add-ons can do a bunch of
different things,
this is actually good that I had this,
add-ons can do a bunch
of different things.
You can have components available that you
are exposing to the consuming app like
what we are setting out to do here.
But you can have add-ons like
Ember CLSS that you know add
a step to the asset pipeline to
transform additional assets.
So by default there may not
necessarily be something visual here.
So what we need to do is make HTML
bars available as a dependency
instead of a dev dependency to
ensure that we can actually build
templates at build time in consuming apps,
not just in the add-on.
>> Mike North: Hopefully this works now.
>> Mike North: Never mind,
let's switch it over but
it looks like a better result.
>> Mike North: Fantastic, so
that was the problem, ember-cli-html-bars
has to be a dependency.
>> Speaker 2: Docs mention that?
>> Mike North: I hope so.
If they don't I'll PR it in shortly.
[LAUGH] All right, so
we have a component here and
the point is not to go through
the component lesson again, but
to explain how this would
work in a consuming app.
So I wanna show you the ES6
modules that are available here so
we can see some important differences.
If we look at Sources > assets.
All right, so we've got fem and
we've got a component here.
And this is actually the component itself.
So I want you to note that this
is the name of the module.
So if we were to bring this into our app,
this would not be picked
up as a component.
And the reason is our app is looking for
github-ui/components/something.
If we look at dummy components,
this is the pass through.
And in this case, it's been built for
the dummy app and massaged a little bit.
But I want you to see that effectively,
I want to get rid of this here,
effectively, this is where
this pass through happens.
And this is why it's so
important to have, in your app folder,
those sort of really short modules that
import and then just immediately export.
That is your ability to control
what's private to your add-on and
what's exposed to the app.
Very important for helpers, very important
for initializers which we didn't get into
but that's how you customize
the way the app starts up.
Initializers simply by being
in the Initializers folder
will be called in the order
that they register themselves.
And so that's another one that like
where there is sensitivity to being
in the app name space of
whatever is consuming.